 Mashau Makhuvele died from hypothermia. The baby’s mother, Girly Mbuyane, told www.mobserver.co.za that her child had chest problems which were exacerbated by them moving into a tent after their shacks were demolished by the Red Ants two weeks ago. Also read: VIDEO: The Red Ants disassemble shacks – devastated Hlalamnandi residents witness the ruin of their homes Ms Mbuyane and about 400 other squatter families were evicted from their homes after an eviction order was obtained by the property owner. Only after the Red Ants pounced, the municipality realised it now had a crisis on hand, and a special council sitting had to be called for more money to be availed to the municipal disaster relief fund, in order to supply more tents. Girly Mbuyane, Joseph Makhuvele and their older daughter mourn the loss of baby Mashau. “At about 04:00 I noticed that she was struggling to breathe. Her breathing was rapid. She passed away at 06:00 after fighting for her life,” her mother said through tears.
The baby’s father, Joseph Makhuvele, blames their situation for the child’s passing. “I feel defeated, these tents are not fit for children, baby Mashau was a healthy baby. Her little body could not handle the cold weather. I still cannot believe she is gone, ” said Mr Makhuvele. Also read: WATCH: ‘We are treated as foreigners in our own country!’ – Tented camps for informal residents Community leader Xolani Shambell said he had to leave work early when he received the horrifying news. “My son is a year old and he is also sick. We were better off in our shacks where we could warm ourselves, at least. We are more determined than ever to occupy the farm,” Mr Shambell warns. Baby Mashau was laid to rest at the Nasaret Cemetery on Friday at 08:00. The eviction order was set aside by the High Court two days after the forceful eviction on October 24. The squatters, however, say they are unable to move back to the farm because their building materials were damaged during the evictions.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za