 William Edgar Bunting started growing his luscious moustache in 1977 as a young trooper in the South African Army and has never been without it. This mighty moustache is thus a full 42 years of age. His wife of 35 years, Ilza, and daughter, Chantelle-Merie (27), have never seen Mr Bunting without his “lip lapa”. All the more reason to dye it pink or shave it all off in order to raise funds for the Cancer Association of South Africa Highveld Care Centre! CANSA’s focus for the month of November is towards male wellness and Mr Bunting has graciously accepted the challenge. His moustache will be dyed bright pink until he raises a certain amount of money. Once his target is reached, it will be shaved off. Mr Bunting will be out and about in Middelburg until 19 December (when this challenge ends) at different places, so keep an eye out for him. CANSA Highveld Care Centre would like to thank Mr Bunting in partnering with the organisation to create awareness for all men out there. Did you know that the top five cancers affecting men in South Africa are: 1. Prostate Cancer
2. Colo-rectal Cancer
3. Lung Cancer
4. Kaposi Sarcoma (a cancer that causes patches of abnormal tissue to grow under the skin, in the lining of the mouth, nose, and throat, in lymph nodes, or in other organs.)
5. Bladder Cancer Help Mr Bunting to achieve his target amount by donating to CANSA. Banking details: Cansa (NKV van SA)
ABSA Bank
Acc: 01020060901
Reference: SNOR_Donor’s Name Send a proof of payment to wbunting@lantic.net. For more information, contact Andries du Preez (CANSA Staff Partner) on 072 248 9424 or adupreez@cansa.org.za.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za