 The tourism hotspot was established after a Missionary from the Berlin Mission Society, Alexander Merensky purchased the farm in 1865.
Botshabelo soon became a vibrant little village with a population of over a thousand residents, all of whom played a part in the building of the famous Botshabelo Chapel. One of the buildings in the Botshabelo village. Caught amidst ownership disputes for decades, the property was finally handed over to the Botshabelo Community Development Trust in 2005.
With each change of hands, promises were made to restore Botshabelo to the proud attraction it once was but financial mismanagement has led to its deterioration. Since then, the plains that once teemed with wildlife is now a barren wasteland. A view of the plains with no wildlife in sight. Game figures have decreased drastically due to poaching in the area. With the wildlife figures dwindling so drastically, a game capture operation was launched. Fort Merensky is a piece of history on its own. The wooden platform that once served as a lookout point has been used as firewood. Ms Rachell Visagie, who is leading the operation, was given permits to capture the wildlife until the middle of November. She has arranged with the trustees to purchase the animals from them legally. The wildlife that is being captured will then be sold to game farms where the correct measures of conservation are set in place.   R10 000 reward for information ‘We should kill him’ – Truck driver hears how hijackers argue about his fate #TrafficUpdate: Avoid N4 near Machadodorp VIDEO: Machadodorp two granted bail  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 