 It does, however, mark the day of shopping hysteria, where thousands of customers storm retailers for their unbeatable prices.
Though Black Friday originated in the USA, South Africa is one of many countries that celebrates the day of promotional sales. The History of Black Friday:
The term “Black Friday” originated in Philadelphia and was used to refer to the day after Thanksgiving, marking the beginning of the Christmas shopping season.
Retailers would extend their business hours as well as offer incredible sales in an attempt to attract more customers. Also read: Black Friday: Searching for happiness in all the wrong places Philadelphia Police used the term Black Friday to describe the heavy flow of pedestrian and vehicle traffic on the streets throughout the two days after Thanksgiving.
Though the term was informal, it eventually stuck and the use thereof became widespread in the 1980’s. An alternative explanation for the term also stems from retailers who finally began to turn a profit from this day.
Accountants would traditionally use red ink on the ledger of the company’s balancing sheet to mark losses and black ink to mark their profits. Also read: Black Friday: A potential trap for shopaholics That being said, Middelburgers are urged to look out for their own Black Friday this week. Whether you’re buying a car, computer or whatever your heart desires, don’t miss this week’s Middelburg Observer for amazing Black Friday specials.
Local dealers will be lowering their prices especially for you, so take a look at some of the sales these places have to offer. Dealers and retailers partaking in Black Friday: 
Eastdene Shopping Centre; Hassens Tyres; Eastvaal Motors; Produkta Trucks; Hi-Tec Wireless; Honda Middelburg; Hinterland; Pet & Pool; Roots Butchery; Louis Farmers Market; Curtain Dream; Game; Buco; HiFi Corporation; Incredible Connection; Midas; Liquor City and many more.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za