 Two Pit bull Terriers were handed over to the SPCA by their owner, after mauling a man to death in Newtown.
Mr Fannie Mnisi was on his way to his girlfriend’s house when the two dogs attacked him. The harrowing story of his death, was later accounted by a man who was also injured after rushing to his rescue. Mr Lewie Makwakwa and his wife, who reside in a home near the location of the incident, were awoken by the sound of Mnisi’s distress.
Thinking that it was their son, the couple ran outside to assess the situation. Also read: Baby abandoned by sex worker Upon their arrival at the scene, they witnessed the grizzly event of Mnisi’s death. Mr Makwakwa tried to assist Mnisi when one of the dogs then turned on him.
In a struggle with the dog, Mr Makwakwa managed to escape but by then, it was too late for Mnisi. Mr Fannie Mnisi.  The Pit bull Terrier breed has been banned in several countries for their aggressive temperament.
The UK has not allowed ownership of this breed since 1991 after 15 fatalities were reported in attacks that were allegedly unprovoked. There is a fair amount of controversy over whether dog attacks are a result of maltreatment or of temperament. While it is true that certain breeds under dogs are more ill-tempered than others, many pet owners will account that its a matter of training. Breeds like the Rottweiler, Put bull Terrier and Boerboels are more commonly used as watchdogs especially for their temperament.
If these dogs are provoked, they are more likely to attack than say, a labrador. Also read: Foetus discovered behind a home At the end of the day, it is on the onus of the pet owner to contain their animals in a suitable enclosure. The real problem lies with owners who keep pets for the wrong reasons. These pets are trained to respond aggressively towards intruders and are restrained without the proper care needed. Lewie Makwakwa shows the bite marks from the attack.  Passers-by tease them relentlessly and as a result, when they break out, they attack strangers. The euthanization of the two Pit bulls comes after several complaints of the dogs roaming freely in the area. In a seperate incident, two other men were also attacked by a pack of dogs early in January. Tawanda Njaniji was walking home in Slegtkamp Street when five dogs attacked him. Another man, who noticed the attack came to his rescue.
Both men were severely wounded in the attack and Tawanda lost his genitals. The two victims were hospitalised after the incident.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za