 Brendon Bouwer fell into the pool after asking his mother to go for a swim. His Mother, Zandalee Bouwer, was busy with her other son when Brendon approached her. She told him to wait a while as she finished tending to her other child and Brendon went outside to where his dad was mowing the lawn. Ms Bouwer put on her costume and went outside to find Brendon floating in the water. She let out a scream and her husband jumped in to retrieve their son. During the commotion, one of their neighbours, who happens to be a nurse at Life Midmed Hospital, ran to assist them. Sister Veronica Visagie checked for a pulse but Brendon’s heart had already stopped beating by then. She then proceeded to give Brendon CPR. Also read: NUUSFLITS: Seuntjie in kritiese toestand na hy is swembad beland Sister Visagie told www.mobserver.co.za that at one point , she looked at her husband and told him that “Brendon is dead”. Her husband told her to keep on performing CPR and she did. Eventually, Brendon started breathing again. The family decided not to wait for an ambulance and drove Brendon to Life Midmed Hospital themselves. Sister Visagie accompanied them to hospital. Brendon was stabilised but had to be tranferred to the Witbank Provincial Hospital because the family does not have medical aid. At one point, a good Samaritan named Juanitha Groenewald appealed to the public to assist the family with donations. In response to Juanitha’s plea, hundreds of community members contributed financially to foot the medical costs. The young boy is currently in Witbank Provincial Hospital where he was placed under a medically induced coma to prevent any further brain damage. His parents told www.mobserver.co.za that a CT scan needs to be done to assess how much damage was sustained to his brain but the hospital does not have a scanner at their disposal. Brendon will remain in a coma until he can be transferred to a hospital that will be able to do the CT Scan. Zandalee and Shaun Bouwer would like to extend their gratitude to Juanitha Groenewald and every other individual who has made an effort to help their family. They have also profusely thanked Sister Visagie for saving Brendon’s life. Anyone who would like to make a financial contribution towards Brendon’s medical bill may contact Ms Groenewald at 072 386 9949.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za