 • Sgt Themba Ntuli (35), stationed at Middelburg, is facing charges of attempted murder and contravening a protection order relating to an incident that took place on Monday 4 June. According to provincial spokesperson Brig Leonard Hlathi, Sgt Ntuli went to the house of a woman who has a protection order against him, at 01:15 in the morning. He allegedly knocked on her bedroom window and called her name. The woman did not reply and moved to another room. Shortly thereafter she heard gunshots and later discovered that her bedroom window was damaged. Sgt Ntuli was arrested and appeared in the Mkobola Magistrate Court. ALSO READ: Policeman in court for iron burns He will remain in custody until his formal bail application on Monday 11 June. • Two police officers working in Belfast have been charged with attempted murder and corruption. Brig. Hlathi says that Constables Sibusiso Hlophe (27) and Zaine Mathebula (40) are accused of shooting at the car of a 28-year-old man whilst he was driving with passengers inside. Bullets hit the rear window, headrest and dashboard of the car. The driver of the car was loaded into the back of the police vehicle the constables were driving in at the time. They later requested money for his release. Both constables were picked from a line-up during an identity parade. They have appeared in Machado Court and have been released on R1 000 bail each. The matter was postponed until Wednesday 20 June for further investigation. N4 closed- Two killed in early morning multiple vehicle collission close to Alzu Golf bars deur kollege heining Dwelms op bestelling VIDEO: Chaos toe toue voertuie wag om brandstof vol te maak  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za