 In accordance with chapter two of the Press Code, the Middelburg Observer publishes its User Generated Content (UGC) Policy. UGC Policy: Any person who makes use of the Middelburg Observer’s online platform extensions* agrees to the following: The publication, its websites and its social media platforms and all persons who utilise it are subject to the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996. Also read: Parents warned about social media pitfalls User Generated Content (UGC) is regulated accordingly. • No user may publish content that amounts to propaganda for war, incitement to imminent violence, advocacy of hatred that is based on race, ethnicity, gender or religion and that constitutes incitement to cause harm. • No user may conduct himself in a way that unjustifiably infringes on person’s basic human rights as set out in the Constitution’s Bill of Rights. • Members of the public must send an e-mail to tobie@mobserver.co.za. In the e-mail, the content complained of must be included, as well as the details of the user who made the comment.  Identify clearly the platform on which the comment was made as well as the date and time. Complainants must indicate whether the content is in breach of this UGC policy and, if so, in what manner. Watch: Video – Sensationalism in the media • Once Middelburg Observer has been made aware of the content complained of, it will evaluate whether the content constitutes a breach of its UGC policy. If the content is found to be a violation of the publication’s UGC policy, the comment complained of is to be deleted within a reasonable time. • The publication’s decision is to be communicated to the complainant. The user who made the comment may be banned from the social media platform to which the content was posted. * The extensions include but are not limited to social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 