 •On Thursday, a man took his own life with a small calibre pistol in Emerald Street. Mr Andre Venter’s body was found by his ex-wife and her nephew after he shot himself the day after his birthday.
Mrs Dalene Venter and her nephew Mr Jaco Hamman came upon his body after Mr Hamman saw him entering Dalene’s bedroom.
The deceased was staying in the outer room on the property belonging to his ex-wife at the time. Mr Andre Venter took his own life a day after his birthday.  •On Friday morning, Mr Dienkie du Plessis was killed in an accident near Woestalleen. Mr Du Plessis and his colleague, Mr Ruan Steenkamp, were on their way to the Wildfontein Mine when their vehicle collided with another pickup on the N4.
The passenger, Mr Steenkamp, fortunately, did not sustain any serious injuries.
Mr Du Plessis leaves behind his wife Karlien and two children, Marnus and Deoné.
The cause of the accident remains unconfirmed. Mr Dienkie Du Plessis with his wife, Karlien and two children, Marnus and Deoné.  •Yet another accident occurred on Friday afternoon at around 15:00 on Dr Mandela Drive in Mhluzi. A BMW that was occupied by six young people lost control and veered into an oncoming Toyota Hilux. Four of the BMW’s occupants died in the collision and the other two were critically injured and admitted into hospital.
Three of the deceased have been identified as Siphosethu Msimango, Sifiso Zulu and Tyron Mashego. The fourth remains unidentified.
A case of culpable homicide has been opened. Also read: Four young lives lost after horror crash in Middelburg •Three men were murdered and another was left in critical condition after a stabbing in Mhluzi. The police were called to the scene on Saturday after which they came upon the four victims. Elvis Mduduzi Nkosi (29), Abraham Ongani Mahlangu (29) and Lawrence Sphiwe Mthimunye (33) were found dead on arrival.
The police are currently investigating three charges of murder as well as a case of attempted murder.  Dullstroom farm attack trial postponed Middelburg weekly weather forecast  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email.