 Where your child will be offered the opportunity to develop as an individual while given security, freedom and sensitive guidance in a peaceful and safe environment.
The school will provide your child with the care and development skills necessary to reach their full potential. Also Read: Die ‘kanon’ in kanonkop Bright Star Nursery School is linked to the Department of Education. It follows CAPS and has trained teachers and staff members.
They offer a safe environment for 3 to 6-year-olds and the aftercare run a full afternoon programme with quality care ending at 17:15.
The school offers many first time educational experiences. The daily routine provides structure, guidance and independence.  Each class offers small group stations such as maths, art, science, letter and number recognition, writing and cutting.
The complete alphabet is introduced, using both upper and lower case letters. Circle time is where the calendar and group discussions take place. Activities are appropriate to each child’s age and stage of development. A consistent daily schedule gives children confidence in the structure of their day and fosters self-initiated and self-directed play, which are the best vehicles for growth and development during this age. Also read: VIDEO – Dennesig van Kleinbegin na spogskool soos min The daily schedule provides a balance of activities such as indoor/outdoor, quiet/active, individual/group, large muscle/small muscle and child initiated/staff initiated. Through play and class activities they are exposed to the concepts of pre­-reading, counting, measuring, grouping, decision making, balance, gravity, reasoning, cooperation, self-awareness, empathy, patience, self-esteem, self­ expression and feelings of competence and independence. Children are introduced to the “school readiness skills” of listening to the teacher, following directions, waiting for a turn, answering appropriately, and most of all being excited about the learning process. Book an appointment to take a look at the school, contact the school on 013 243 5261 or send an email to brightstar@telkomsa.net.  Suspects might be linked to seven other robberies • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za