 The municipality had to contract 10 private water tankers to supply water to the 25 JoJo Tanks trucked into Hendrina and Kwazamokuhle for two weeks. Mayor Mike Masina told www.mobserver.co.za during an interview that the manual supply of water to the town was not sustainable and Optimum and its water reclamation plant contractor Proxa, agreed to reactivate the supply for at least the next six months at R2 million per month, payable to Proxa directly. It was the second time since September last year that the area, with a population of roughly 26 000 residents, was left high and dry due to a reclamation plant shutdown. The plant was brought to a grinding halt again on February 13 and only started up again on February 23, leaving Hendrina and Kwaza without water for 10 full days at a cost of R3,2 million. During the shutdown, water tankers operated daily from 06:00 till 23:00 at an average of eight loads per day at a rate of R825 per 5000 litres. Neighbouring towns also collected water for Hendrina and Kwaza and around 45 000 litres of bottled water was handed out from the N.G. Church hall to affected households. The municipality, however, had a bigger problem at hand with the sewerage systems not functioning. •The municipality now estimates that it will cost R17 million over the next four months to reinstate raw water supply from the decommissioned Eskom line from the Woestalleen Pump Station. The municipality will have to apply for a raw water abstraction licence from the Department of Water and Sanitation for an average supply of 3,5 megalitres each day. The above amounts have been referred to the February 2018 Adjustment Budget for approval. Other projects have to be reprioritised to accommodate the additional R17 million capital expenditure. Proxa have agreed to release 3,2 megalitres of water from Optimum’s reclamation plant for at least the next six months.  Add us on WhatsApp for regular news updates. Save the Middelburg Observer standby number 072 248 3855 on your phone and send a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to receive news links.