 What’s happening outside the mall from 31 March to 7 April: • There will be a stage with sound set up by Dobe Entertainment in the parking area next to McDonald’s, where our local talent will be performing. There will be different types of dancing, singing, poetry reading, martial arts and kickboxing displays, to mention a few. Events will be hosted on both Saturdays. • Radio Kragbron will have their mobile unit in the parking lot on both Saturdays, with live switchovers to the mall on an hourly basis. • On Saturday, 31 March, the SAPS will have a demonstration of their K9 unit, as well as their horse-mounted unit roaming the area. Shoppers will be able to watch the demonstration and get more information on emergency numbers to dial and so forth. • Fidelity Security will be landing a helicopter in the parking lot next to McDonald’s on Saturday, 31 March, for shoppers to see, other examples of their other divisions will be there too. Shoppers will be able to get more information on the services provided by Fidelity Security and their different divisions in Middelburg. • The Fire Brigade will have a fire truck parked in the parking lot for shoppers to have a look at, as well as get more information on emergency numbers to dial and what to do in case of an emergency. • Saturday, 7 April, there will be a vintage car show display in the parking lot for everyone to have a walk through and enjoy. • Bumper car fun for all ages • Toy car rides Inside the mall from 31 March to 7 April: • Huge sale stalls across the mall! Browse and shop while walking through the mall. • Traditional carnival games will be at entrances 2, 3 and 5. Shoppers will be able to play for free and stand the chance of winning a prize! • The entire mall will be decorated – the community is invited to come and have a look at the décor for themselves. • On both Saturdays there will be a face painter roaming throughout the mall. • Popcorn and candy floss! • Toy pony rides. • Easter egg and balloon handouts, both in and outside the mall.  Add us on WhatsApp for regular news updates. Save the Middelburg Observer standby number 072 248 3855 on your phone and send a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to receive news links.