 Researchers from around the world have conducted a series of studies to find out which factors have a negative effect on digestion or lead to overweight. One of the most common mistakes is the combination of eating with watching movies on TV and playing online games on the computer. These habits completely absorb the attention of a person, which leads to a satiety distortion. Distracted by the events on the screen, we do not notice what we eat, so we do not get pleasure from the taste of food. In addition, the quality of chewing food deteriorates, and this can lead to poor health since the body spends more energy on the digestive processes and receives less useful substances from badly chewed food. The risk of injury to the esophagus along with the reproduction of harmful bacteria that enter the stomach with food may occur. internet image. Reading books, magazines or news is also considered to be an unfavourable factor. When we read, watch the latest photos of friends in social networks, watch movies, TV shows or even cheat time with such simple games as online slots, we stop controlling the amount of food consumed. As a rule, in such cases, people tend to have a lot of snacks such as sweets, baked goods or fast food. Excessive use of such high-calorie foods leads to the excess weight. The problem of improper eating is especially important for children. Some parents allow their children to play games or watch cartoons while eating so that a child could unwittingly eat cereal or broccoli. After such a meal, as a rule, the feeling of hunger does not disappear, and the children eat a large number of sweets to be full. internet image It is worth noting that it is important not only to eat consciously, but also to eat foods containing useful substances and vitamins, and also to follow a meal plan. In addition, do not forget that it is undesirable to take water straight after the food since any liquid dilutes the gastric juice. Add us on WhatsApp for regular news updates. Save the Middelburg Observer standby number 072 248 3855 on your phone and send a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to receive news links.