 www.mobserver.co.za can confirm that disgruntled community members first picketed outside the police station on Tuesday, before proceeding to Highveld Emporium where the building was looted and set alight. Business owners in Machadodorp however warned that the violence could reignite at any time after a number of warnings were issued by the community that more businesses would be set alight. Also read: UPDATE: Neighbourhood watch guards in custody following racial unrest Meanwhile the police and provincial government has appealed for calm following the unrest in which two neighbourhood watch members were arrested by police when Emporium’s Indian owner called for backup on Monday when one of his employees were assaulted in front of a tavern on his way home from work. The two detained security officers were innocently drawn into the fracas when they responded to the business owner’s call for help.
A growing mob immediately surrounded them while they attempted to arrest a suspect implicated in the assault of the Emporium employee on Monday. STRONG LANGUAGE: (Exclusive video) – Shock footage of arrest which sparked racial unrest  The racial row was ignited by a feud between the Indian businessman and a former tenant whom he evicted from one of his properties after a botched property deal. The two guards have been in custody since Monday. They will remain in custody until Friday when they will appear in court for a formal bail application. Police remain on high alert.  Armed robbery at Auctioneers Pastor gunned down during church service Three killed in shootout with Police Suspects might be linked to seven other robberies • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za