 Security guards were stationed at the stop leading to the municipal swimming pool where the vast majority of revellers were concentrated until the early hours of Sunday morning, to the detriment of residents. Youth were observed urinating in the street, and all along the concrete palisade fences where revellers also lined the banks of the Klein Olifants River, where a number of food trucks sold takeaways. According to the municipality, the sporting day was organised by the municipality’s Youth Development Department. On Sunday morning municipal swimming pool caretakers took hours to clean the mess around the pool left by party goers.   The same, however, could not be said for the banks of the Klein Olifants where loads of garbage found its way into the river. Broken bottles still lay strewn alongside the river and around the swimming pool where disorderly revellers continued the party well into Sunday morning. A large stack of more than 15 refuse bags in front of a still locked swimming pool bore testimony to the wild night.
Security guards remained on point duty around the pool until Sunday night. Also read: Waste water ‘killing’ Klein Olifants Despite barrier tape being put up to keep vehicles inside the demarcated parking areas around the pool, countless cars still parked on the road surface of Impala Street, spurring passing motorists to drive around the vehicles into oncoming traffic. Soccer, netball and other games were presented by the municipality to celebrate Spring Day. The day was also open to adults to compete. The mix of adults and children were contrasting, with children huddling around vehicles with blaring radios and car boots filled with alcohol. Taxis could be seen leaving the poolside with open doors and children of all ages were hanging from the vehicles.  Armed robbery at Auctioneers Pastor gunned down during church service Three killed in shootout with Police Suspects might be linked to seven other robberies • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za