 Machadodorp erupted in violence on Tuesday with the Highveld Emporium being torched and the Indian owner’s home pelted with rocks. On Monday an employee of Highveld Emporium walked past a tavern in Potgieter Street on his way home after work. Also read: UPDATE: Neighbourhood watch guards in custody following racial unrest Sources close to the investigation say that the employee was then attacked and assaulted by associates of a man who bought a home from Highveld Emporium’s owner. The deal however fell through and the businessman obtained an eviction order to get the family out of the home. Also read: UPDATE: ‘Whites’ warned to stay indoors by violent protesters, everything calm for now Upon learning of his employee’s assault, the businessman called for assistance from the neighbourhood watch. The two guards arrived and attempted to arrest one of the attackers. The community however immediately became violent towards the guards attempting to subdue the suspect until police arrived.  STRONG LANGUAGE: (Exclusive video) – Shock footage of arrest which sparked racial unrest   On video footage of the incident community members can be seen accosting the two guards in open view of police officers. Bail is being refused for both. The alleged attacker of the employee has not been arrested despite a case having been opened against him by the victim who has fled Machadodorp to safety after receiving death threats. The community has also threatened to harm the two guards and their property, as well as the property and safety of Afriforum’s Machadodorp chairman.  Armed robbery at Auctioneers Pastor gunned down during church service Three killed in shootout with Police Suspects might be linked to seven other robberies • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za