 The patient’s name is being withheld on request. The 54-year-old woman underwent a hysterectomy, a procedure wherein the woman’s womb is removed, at the Witbank Hospital in July this year. It soon became clear that something was horribly wrong and she went back to the hospital for help. Also read: Horror ordeal at Hospital – ‘They tied me to a bed!’ At the hospital, she claims she was shown the door with the excuse that ‘their machines are broken’. Out of desperation, the woman went to the Middelburg Hospital to try and find help. There she was told that they also have problems with their machines and that a serious backlog exists. They requested her to return in January. Also read: Doctor killed, nurses stabbed at hospital “I’ve always heard of these horror stories at hospitals. But it is something else to experience it first hand. Have they lost so much compassion that they are willing to watch someone die, without lifting a finger?” the woman’s shocked employer asked. The woman cannot stand at all and has difficulty eating. Her stomach is swollen as if she is pregnant and the skin around the scar is bloody under the surface.
Her loved ones fear that she will not live to see the end of the week, let alone the end of the year. They now plan to take her to Ermelo Hospital to see if they can get help there. Her former employer said that she is willing to drive her to any hospital, even in Gauteng, if she can be helped. • A media enquiry was sent to the Department of Health. They promised to give a response as soon as possible.  Armed robbery at Auctioneers Pastor gunned down during church service Three killed in shootout with Police Suspects might be linked to seven other robberies • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za