 High traffic volumes are expected along the N4 Toll Route, between the Solomon Mahlangu offramp in Gauteng and the Maputo Port, in Mozambique, over the next few days. A significant surge in traffic is anticipated on Thursday 26 April, Friday 27 April and Tuesday 1 May, 2018. In anticipation of the increased traffic volumes, TRAC will again boost its efforts to accommodate the influx and ensure that our road stays safe and congestion free. ALSO READ: The road safety campaigns will make you think To avoid severe traffic congestion on the Mozambican portion of the N4, the Stop/Go’s between Ressano Garcia and the Moamba Plaza will be removed from 27 April to 1 May. However, the three (3) Stop/Go’s in the Elandsvalley region will remain operational because the project is in a delicate phase and their temporary removal is impossible at this stage. Road users are therefore advised to use Schoemanskloof as an alternate route to enter and exit the Lowveld. TRAC’s proactive road patrol teams will also conduct two daily patrols on 26 April and 1 May, whilst its roadside assistance and accident response teams and the TRAC Helpdesk will be on full alert throughout the long weekend. High traffic volumes are expected en route to the Lebombo and Ressano Garcia Border Posts, which will not be operational 24-hours a day as is the case during conventional holiday periods. It is thus imperative for road users to plan their trips accordingly and give themselves enough time to reach their destination. ALSO READ: Tips on how to stay safe during approaching holidays TRAC also advises road users to be prepared for long delays at the borders, by ensuring that their vehicles have enough fuel and that they have enough water to remain hydrated in the relentless Lowveld and Mozambican heat. TRAC also urges road users to obey all road regulations, traffic signage (permanent and temporary) and speed limits, and to be courteous to each other. The safety and wellbeing of the N4 Toll Route’s road users is TRAC’s primary concern and we urge everyone using our beautiful highway to make full use of our road safety initiative, by calling the TRAC Helpdesk on 0800 87 22 64 (South Africa) or +258 84 34 34 34 6 (Mozambique), for our fast assistance and response to any problem. 