 Held at the Cosmos Hall on 27 November two EFF Coucillors and one of ANC’s own were each fined R10 000 for missing three consecutive sittings without formal apology. Calls for the expulsion of EFF Coucillor Ms Poppy Mailola are being looked into after she missed three consecutive council sittings and three Infrastructure Development Portfolio Comittee meetings without pro forma applications. Councillor Mailola stated in her defense that her absence was due to first her own illness and then the illness of her child. Despite the EFF’s appeals for lenience Committee Chairman, Mr Maruma Sekgwele recommended that Ms Mailola be expelled “to focus on the important matters keeping her busy at home, at the cost of the electorate.” ANC Councillor Johanna Mitchell and EFF Councillor Akhona Mangcotywa also begged for leniency but despite their excuses the fines were imposed. The matter surrounding Ms Mailola’s expulsion was referred to Cooperative Governance MEC, Mr Speedy Mashilo. Ms Mailola retaliated by demanding that the decision be finalised there and then but Speaker Andries Mabena called her to order, stating that she would remain in council until the MEC’s ruling. Mr Mabena then proceeded to issue final warnings to fellow ANC members over ill-discipline on the grounds of a previous sitting where then Speaker Robert Xaba, said he felt like he was “presiding over a creche”.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za