 ‘Gustaff se Dierepark’ is based in Jeppe Street and is run by Sannie Uys, who was widowed six months ago. The pet store has an array of animals in its care that consists of birds, snakes, fish and rabbits. They also have a petting zoo where farm animals can be petted by day visitors. In an interview with the SPCA’s Senior Inspector Petro Oberholzer, she told www.mobserver.co.za that the initial complaint was over the state of the raccoon.
Senior Inspector Oberholzer said that weekly visits were paid to the pet store so she could check up on the condition of the animals. The SPCA’s approach to such complaints consists of educating animal owners on the proper care required for animals that belong to them.
She also explained that she can not report a case of animal cruelty or negligence unless she has issued three warnings for the same offence. She has provided the pet store with a care sheet specifying the unique needs of a pet raccoon, and said since her last visit Ms Uys has made an effort to comply with the instructions. Senior Inspector Oberholzer said that despite her personal distaste for pet shops, the animals at “Gustaff se Dierepark” are in good condition.
“They have enough water and food, and the animals are in good condition. There are no signs of abuse.” Ms Uys was also willing to answer any questions aimed at her by www.mobserver.co.za. She disclosed in an interview that since her husband’s passing, she’s been struggling to keep things afloat. She explained that she wasn’t very familiar with the needs of a raccoon, but since receiving the care sheets from the SPCA, she’s done her best to ensure that the animal has everything it needs. “We have erected a larger cage with a climbing pole, a large tub of water for it to wash in and a shelter for it to hide in. Senior Inspector Oberholzer suggested that we put in a water fountain, and I think it’s a good idea.” Ms Uys went on to explain that unfortunately, she cannot allow the raccoon to walk around, because it may pose as a risk to her visitors or escape altogether. Since Senior Inspector Oberholzer’s frequent visits, Ms Uys has agreed to let some of her farm animals go to allow for more space in the encampment, “I have let four animals go already, two dwarf goats, a calf and a boar.” She explained that the pet store is being run in the memory of her beloved husband and that it’s also named after him. Her husband was very fond of animals and Ms Uys said she is trying to keep his legacy alive by maintaining his business.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za