 Just because you’re not going anywhere, doesn’t mean your holiday has to be a dull one.
Let’s take a look at what there is to do for you and your family this festive season. •The new and modern Food Lover’s Market that cut their ribbon on 29 November has a corner for everything in their store.
They welcomed their first shoppers with deals so irresistible that clients bought products by the bucketloads.  Shopping for the holidays should be an easy trip, since you can just about find anything you need under one roof!
Food Lover’s Market is situated at Shop number 139 Keiskamma Drive, Aerorand. Middelburgers are urged to go and pay them a visit. •As could be seen on the front page of last Friday’s Middelburg Observer, the Midwater Shopping Centre welcomes Buffalo Lake Spur.
The franchise is owned by the Alzu Group and opened for business on 6 December.  The new Middelburg Spur is one of its kind, sporting a whole new look as well as favourite South African dishes added to their menu.
A play area for children, strategically placed in open view, offers a safe environment for the little chiefs waiting for their meal. An ideal outing for the family! •And last but not least, the Middelburg Care Village welcomes the community to celebrate the kick-off to Christmas with their resplendent display of Christmas lights!
Their festival of lights started on 3 December and will be continuing until coming Friday.  The gates open at 17:00, where an entry fee of R20 per person is charged at the gate. A wide variety of stalls are ready to serve with an array of eats for the peckish.
Lights go on as soon as its dark and members of the public are then welcome to observe the grand display. Make Christmas at home an exciting Christmas!  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za