 “Sadly, there are going to be fatalities on our roads this festive season many of which will include children simply because they were not strapped in,” says Jakkie Olivier, CEO of the Retail Motor Industry Organisation (RMI). If a vehicle is involved in a collision at 50kph and a baby is sitting on an adult’s lap on the front seat, the child will be hurled through the windscreen with an impact similar to that of falling from a three-storey window. Alternatively, the child will be crushed against the dashboard by the force of the adult’s body weight which is 30 times heavier at the moment of impact i.e. 45kg becomes 1360kg. Image by: Drivenmag.co.za  “Please parents invest in car seats for your children and strap them in this festive season and every day after,” says Olivier. The law supports the use of baby seats with the child restraint law, as published in the 22nd National Road Traffic Amendment. “Besides the threat of a fine, should a driver be caught with a child not buckled in, the reality of what can happen to a child in the event of an accident should motivate drivers to do the right thing,” he says. The Medical Research Council (MRC) has reported that road traffic accidents are the leading cause of injury deaths among under-fives in South Africa, with most of these a result of children not in car seats. Over and above that the majority of brain damage cases in children under the age of five are directly related to injuries sustained during car accidents. A horrific accident in 2011 in which 18 people died. FOTO: Daleen Naude.  “There are options for parents that feel they can’t afford car seats. Revamped second hand car seats are available at reduced prices at several stores around the country. Wheel Well in Johannesburg, for example, offers this service using a donation system,” mentions Olivier. “Please also make sure that the car seat you select is appropriate for your vehicle. If you are unsure don’t hesitate to contact an RMI-member dealership or independent workshop. It is very important that the seat fits and is fitted correctly into the vehicle. Don’t let any factors come in the way of putting your child’s safety first. Let’s make sure they reach their holiday destination safely,” he concludes.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za