 Eskom said that because of the low electricity demand usually experienced during the festive season, the power utility uses this time to intensify plant maintenance and also to fast-track the recovery of stock levels. Also read: Prayer against road fatalities The organisation has implemented a nine-point recovery plan aimed at improving generation performance and returning the energy availability factor (EAF) to 75% by November 2019. Because of this, there will be a higher-than-usual number of coal trucks, especially on the major roads to and from the coal-fired power stations and coal mines, mostly situated in the Mpumalanga Province. #EskomMediaStatement Eskom urges South Africans to heed safety rules as coal-recovery continues over the festive season https://t.co/A6tJJ4Lib2 @ewnupdates @IOL @eNCA @SABCNewsOnline @MOBSERV @WITBANK_NEWS @hoevelder @Lowvelder pic.twitter.com/UnXKI27aEU — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) December 19, 2018  “While the restoration of the power system is an overarching objective, the safety of all South Africans on our roads remains a priority. We therefore urge our people to be vigilant and obey the rules of the road at all times,” says Eskom Group Chief Executive, Phakamani Hadebe. Eskom will stop coal haulage during high-peak days where the volume of travelers increases on the roads from 24 December 2018 to 27 December and again from 31 December 2018 to 1 January 2019. Also read: Highway Prayer Patrol hard at work Mpumalanga is the gateway to many neighbouring countries, like Swaziland and Mozambique. Eskom urged motorists planning to travel through the province to properly plan their trips. The high number of coal trucks as well as operating hours at border gates should be taken into account to avoid the last minute rush. Other News: Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za