 Women and children fleeing from violent backgrounds are offered a place of safety and are helped back onto their feet. The social workers are proud to lay testimony to their many success stories over the years, but unfortunately they have had to close their doors. The shelter, that is capable of housing up to 14 refugees, is now only used for counselling until the home can be renovated and made habitable.
For that to be done, the Victim Support Centre needs help. The organisation held a stakeholder exhibition tour on 10 December, hoping to convince potential sponsors to help relieve their financial pressures.
The tour presented a list of obstacles to overcome before the Centre can open its doors again. The ceilings have sustained severe water damage thanks to a leaking roof, plumbing needs to be redone, the kitchen needs a make-over and the home can do with a fresh coat of paint.
The centre is also hoping to procure themselves a building inspector who can come and do an assessment of the shelter, pro bono. Their plea to the community is one for financial assistance or donations. The Victim Support Centre was extremely excited when their tour resulted in a bit of success. Middelburg Ferrochrome has agreed to refit the shelter with a new ceiling after Mr Dricus Bosman came to take a look.
That aside, there is still plenty of work to do. Should you wish to help the Victim Support Centre with donations, the following items are needed: linen (neutral/calming colours), clothing, paving bricks and kitchenware. Should you wish to make a financial donation or offer your expertise in the renovation, call the Victim Support Centre office on 013 243 2732.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za