 “During the festive season the scale is likely to go up, rather than down,” says Renny Letswalo, Managing Director at Cambridge Weight Plan. “There seems to be a never ending amount of food and drink during this time, tempting us to break our own health rules,” adds Letswalo. •Reaching for comfort food during the holidays. Most people overeat as a result of stress and not actual hunger, says Letswalo. “We are biologically wired to reach for comfort food when we are stressed and overwhelmed, which often temporarily takes the edge off. But the trick lies in breaking the connection between stress and food and replacing comfort eating with something else. “The silly season can be a nerve-wracking time for people trying to lose weight, so try these tips and tricks to beat the bulge during the holidays. •Put your food on a smaller plate. Studies show that the bigger the plate, the more food people serve, so opt for the side plate to control your portions. •Buy healthy snacks. Make sure your fridge is loaded with healthy options to choose from. Apples, yogurt and fresh veggies can ward off hunger pangs and stop you from eating out of boredom. •Keep exercising. Even if you only schedule short interval training throughout the day, stay active and keep moving. •Start off strong. Start the day with a healthy breakfast. A bowl of cooked oats will keep you feeling fuller for longer – reducing your chances of overeating. •Limit your alcohol intake. If you must drink, opt to drink from a tall and narrow glass to drink less. According to studies we consume more liquid when we drink form a short, wide glass compared to a tall and narrow one. •Avoid mindless eating. Don’t eat while distracted such as when watching TV. Rather sit down at the table to eat which forces you to focus on what you are eating and portion control.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za