 •Friday 30 November: A pedestrian was killed near Alzu on the N4. •Saturday 1 December: Two people were killed when a VW Polo lost control and rolled into the bridge at the Arnot offramp on the N11. •Sunday 2 December (01:00): Three people were killed after a head-on collision between a Corsa bakkie and a truck at the Renoster Street T-junction on the R555 (Stoffberg Road). •Sunday 2 December (13:00): Two people died when a bakkie rolled on the N11 near De Voetpadkloof. •Tuesday 11 December: Eleven people lose their lives after a head-on collision between a taxi and a truck on the Van Dijksdrift Road (R575). •Saturday 15 December: Three people died when the tyre of a trailer burst, causing the bakkie towing it to roll into the bridge at the Hendrina offramp on the N4. •Sunday 16 December: One person was killed when a BMW lost control on the N11 causing it to roll. Evidence on the scene indicated that the car was travelling at almost 200 km/h when the accident occurred.  Several other accidents occurred where people were injured: •On Friday 14 December four vehicles were involved in an accident on the R555 near the Lunchbar Shop in the vicinity of Roossenekal. Several seriously injured patients were transported to hospital by ambulance. •On the same day a vehicle overturned near Thandabantu Lodge on the R555 where people were transported to hospital. •On Saturday near the railway bridge on the R555 near Mapochmine, a bakkie overturned killing one person. •On Sunday a truck collided with a bakkie in Walter Sisulu Street at the Middelburg Hospital bend. The driver of the bakkie was taken to hospital for treatment. It is suspected that his wearing a seat-belt, saved his life. Capt. Khanyisile Zwane, Middelburg police spokesperson, said that more than 60 people were arrested for drunken driving on 16 December.     Other News: Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 