 All indications pointed that the two suspects were about to rob the elderly resident.
According to Capt. Khanyisile Zwane (Media Spokesperson), Section Commander Moses Bolton and his team were busy with a patrol in the area when they decided to search the vehicle. The taser gun that was recovered from the blue bag. One of the patrollers observed the white VW Polo standing in the driveway and instructed the occupants to get out.
The two robbers told the patroller that they were contractors and they were there to do a job.
No stolen goods were found on them but a search of the vehicle produced a blue case. A loaded pistol, a bibi gun, ammunition, a knife, balaclavas, masking tape, cable ties, gloves, several cellphones, cash and a taser gun were recovered from the blue bag. The balaclavas and gloves that were also found with the two robbers. The suspects were arrested. At the police station, the weapon’s serial number was traced back to a security company in Limpopo which reported the weapon as stolen.
The white VW Polo was hijacked in eMalahleni in May this year.
After questioning, the arrestees took the police to a house in Mhluzi where they recovered several falsified registration plates. Adhesive tape was among some of the other more sinister materials, recovered in the blue bag. •After the suspects were locked up, the police returned to the residence in Verdoorn Street where they found the elderly resident. She lives alone and was not aware of the incident. •Nhanhla Thomo (from Rockdale) and Sibusiso Nkambule (Ext. 18 Mhluzi) appeared in court on Thursday morning on charges of possession of a stolen vehicle and weapon.
More charges will likely follow once the Police can prove that they were involved with the hijacking in eMalahleni.  Help search for missing Middelburg man VIDEO: Crowd shouts, “Juju-Juju” at public hearing about land expropriation Leser foto’s: Dis bibberend koud in Middelburg PHOTOS and VIDEO: Fire destroys Little Elephant  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za