 From Kranspoort in the North to Hendrina in the South, Steve Tshwete Municipality’s Parks Department plants at least 5000 trees all year round to ensure a green town with a reduced carbon footprint. A further 8000 to 10 000 trees are propagated at the municipal nursery though many of them succumb to the bone-chilling winters the Highveld endures.
In preparation for the awards, parks head Ms Dalene Lamprecht briefed councillors on Tuesday about what the municipality has done during the past couple of months to ensure Middelburg stays clean, green and carbon lean. Also read: Water crisis looming in Middelburg Ms Lamprecht applauded community projects like the Dennesig Dam cleaning campaign, which resulted in the dam being practically rid of an invasive aquatic plant. Traces of the regenerating plant is still visible in the dam however, and chemicals to kill off the alien invader in its entirety, will be done by the municipality after monitoring growth for a while. She said the Key for a Tree project, where housing beneficiaries are provided with a tree alongside their title deeds and home keys, is also a sure set way to keep Middelburg green. Also read: Lifesaver or recipe of disaster? Tapping into Cape Town’s aquifers Street tree by-laws also serve to protect indigenous trees from unnecessary felling while an invasive alien plant management resolution by the council ensures that the municipality, in conjunction with the Department of Environmental Affairs and Working for Water, continually take down trees like weeping willows, blue gums and black wattle trees that suck dry our already overburdened water resources. Pampas grass is also a very big problem around streams and has been described as the environment’s “Pampers nappies” because they suck up so much water. Also read: Plotting the deep secrets of our forests Invasive plants and trees are utilised by entrepreneurs for firewood, fences, garden furniture and other commendable money-making schemes.
Invasive plants are, of course, also a big fire hazard and need to be controlled, while dumping sites must be cleared, “Rubbish collection and greening goes hand in hand,” Ms Lamprecht says. Council has also resolved to protect historic trees, like Van Blerk Square’s oaks, the oaks of the White Church and the majestic palm trees of the historic Middelburg Railway Station. Also read: ‘Shocking’ die-off of Africa’s oldest baobabs, all in southern Africa The new 7,2 km mountain bike trail has also seen a large number of indigenous trees planted there while new parks in Extension 23, Rockdale and Rondebosch will also undergo a green metamorphosis. Apart from environmental interventions, the municipality also hosts educational roadshows at schools to educate the youth on the importance of having a healthy environment. About 7% of the park’s budget is utilised for the greening of Middelburg.  Armed suspects hit again Taxi passengers injured in collision No mercy for mentally and physically disabled   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za