 Mpumalanga MEC for Community Safety, Security, and Liaison, MEC Pat Ngomane, lied in a press release when he said the men involved in the assault “was allegedly farmers”. It is unclear where the MEC got his information from, about farmers being involved in the assault. Eyewitnesses interviewed by www.mobserver.co.za, told the police that the men involved in the fight claimed that they worked in the mining industry and resided in Kriel and not in Middelburg. Also read: Road rage ends with murder The MEC also told protesters that the case has been placed back on the court roll and that he will personally monitor the court process.
It was confirmed with the Middelburg Police that no one has been arrested in connection with the matter, meaning that the case could not have been put back on the court roll. ANC supporters marched to the Middelburg Magistrate’s Court to hand over a memorandum of demands to the Mpumalanga MEC for Community Safety, Security, and Liaison and the Middelburg Magistrate’s Court officials. Also read: VIDEO: Road rage incident – This is what happened before young man died The march was organised after the death of Xolisile Ndzongana, a Mhluzi resident. Ndzonganga passed away in hospital from a brain injury. His friends alleged that he was assaulted by the occupants of another car whom they came across on their way home from a pub in the early morning hours of Sunday 8 July. The Nkangala Regional Chairman‚ Speedy Mashilo spearheaded the signing of the memorandum and march. Members of the ANC were protesting against “racism in the town and cases involving farm dwellers that are not being investigated thoroughly”. Mr Mashilo told supporters that the party will not stop fighting and protesting against inequities in the province. MEC Ngomane said that he will ask the Mpumalanga police commissioner to deploy a special team to investigate cases affecting farm dwellers.  Supporters say that farm dwellers’ rights must be protected by the police.  Dullstroom farm attack trial postponed VIDEO: Dance group brings joy to residents Middelburg weekly weather forecast Pay or use ‘The road where death lives’  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za