 The Orphanage moved from Waterbok Street in Groblersdal to Tafelkop in 2004.
According to the Manager, Mr Rashideen Abdullah Sekatane, the fire started in one of the dormitories.
“A candle caused the fire, as the orphanage does not have electricity. The power was cut off, because the electricity account was too high, and we are struggling to keep the high electricity fees paid,” said Mr Sekatane. Maryam Abassi(15) one of the sisters who died in the fire.  The blaze destroyed two wings of the building and trapped two children inside.
The children were identified as sisters, Maryam (15) and Inna Abassi (6).
The police in Motetema, outside Groblersdal, were notified when community members noticed the flames coming from the roof of the building, unfortunately, it was already too late to save the Abassi sisters. Inna Abassi (6) one of the sisters who died in the fire.  “Two wings of the orphanage were completely destroyed by the fire. One wing is now left to accommodate the 42 children that live at the institute. The structure is stable enough and we will be able to make do for now until we raise enough funds to rebuild the institute.”
Mr Sekatane siad that the does not have insurance. The Groblersdal Islamic Institute is in desperate need of blankets, mattresses, pillows, bedding, toiletries, food, cleaning products and school clothes for the children. If anyone is able to help, they can contact Mr Sekatane on 072 605 0010 or 072 681 1726. • Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the death of the two children and said that the authorities are now investigating a double inquest.  Eight injured in taxi collision Kranspoort gesluit Damme van leeg na vol Groot klippe in paaie gegooi  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za