 There are two versions of what happened on 27 April when Gerhard Coetzer (29) was killed at a house in Walter Sisulu Street. Police are seemingly still baffled about what exactly transpired on that day. The first version is that of Phillip de Klerk. He alleges that they had a party at the house, heard a gunshot and saw Gerhard jump up, run and fall. He died on the spot. Mr De Klerk also told the media the same version when asked about the events. He said that he assumed that robbers was responsible for Gerhard’s death. Gerhard’s wife, Bianca, has a completely different version of events on the day. She told www.mobserver.co.za that the story about the robbers was a lie concocted by the group of people present on the scene. What really happened on 27 April, when Gerhard Coetzer was shot and killed?  Mrs Coetzer said that when they arrived at the party, the people present were already using alcohol. One man in the group had a gun in his hand. He was allegedly playing with the gun and had a holster strapped around his waist. Mrs Coetzer said that she was sitting with her back to the group of people when the first shot was fired. The bullet hit a window. She turned around to take her three year old son from the pool when the second shot was fired. In the seconds that followed, her husband jumped up, ran a couple of metres and collapsed. Mrs Coetzer said that she ran to her husband to try and help him. The person who was previously playing with his gun grabbed her, prevented her from reaching her husband, and said that he would take care of her and her children. “I was told to say that he was shot by robbers,” she said. Mrs Coetzer said that her son began to scream hysterically. A person who rents a flat on the same property, recalled how someone came banging on her door, shouting for her to call an ambulance.   She went outside and felt for a pulse but realised that Gerhard was already dead. Hendrik de Jager, who was also on the scene, collapsed after learning of Gerhard’s death. He was treated on the scene by ER24 paramedics. Gerhard’s brother, Riaan Badenhorst, said that he found it strange that no one has been arrested for his brother’s death. He is very upset about rumors that the people on the scene tried to conceal the truth with “a lie about robbers.”  www.mobserver.co.za can confirm that none of the people present on the scene were tested for gun residue on their hands. There are allegations that the person who played with the gun, were not in possession of a valid licence. Mr Badenhorst has said that he has learned from other family members that they have seen the man bragging with the same gun on previous occasions. It is unclear what happened to the gun. There were rumors that the man who fired the shots, got rid of it shortly after the incident.  No one has been arrested for the murder as of yet. The family of Mr Coetzer fears that nothing will come of the investigation.