 The woman’s identity is being withheld for humane reasons. She underwent a hysterectomy in July this year but soon realised that all was not well. Her stomach swelled to such an extent that it looked like she was pregnant. The scar where the operation was performed turned red and bloody under the skin. When she went to look for help she was shown away from the Witbank Hospital with the excuse that “their machines were not working”. Middelburg Hospital told her to come back in January 2019. Her loved ones fear that in her current state, she will not live that long. Also read: Woman fears for domestic worker’s life after botched hysterectomy After reporting about her plight, a well-doer contacted www.mobserver.co.za and undertook to try and help her. She got an appointment to see a doctor at the Middelburg Hospital. Her former employer told www.mobserver.co.za that hospital staff had tears in their eyes when they saw the state she was in. She has now been instructed to come back in three weeks while the hospital tries to trace the doctor who performed the original operation. “The problem is that she lives with her family in Nebo at the moment and she has to travel very far to get to hospital and back. Because she is not working, she does not have any money and transport is expensive. She is also in a lot of pain, especially if she has to sit for long periods,” the woman’s former employer said, who has been supporting her financially.  R10 000 reward for information ‘We should kill him’ – Truck driver hears how hijackers argue about his fate #TrafficUpdate: Avoid N4 near Machadodorp VIDEO: Machadodorp two granted bail  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za