 Desperate residents, clutching for attention, could barely wait for their turn to share their plight, since being removed from their homes. On Wednesday 24 October, a private landowner had informal settlers forcefully removed from his property by a private security company.
The Red Ants flooded into the assortment of shacks and tore apart their homes one by one, leaving the settlers to carry their belongings to the streets. The belongings of the evictees stand outside, exposed to all kinds of weather. The informal residents had been forewarned of the planned eviction, but could not relocate since no provisions of alternative accommodation had been made. Since then, families have been split apart and are now expected to share a tent with seven other people. These strangers are crammed into one tent with all of their personal belongings.
A JoJo Tank was brought in to supply the residents with drinking water but has been empty since Monday. Residents fetching water from the stream. “We have to share a tent with strangers, we can’t sleep because people are stealing our belongings. In one tent, there are nearly 50 people inside. Last night, we had to keep rebuilding the tents because the wind was blowing them away!” Said Xolani. Xolani feels like the government is doing nothing to take care of them. “We are being treated like foreigners in our own country! How can people expect us to live like this? We have to go fetch dirty drinking water from a ditch, it’s sewerage water!” The weather forecast for Middelburg has predicted heavy storms for the next few days and these residents will remain exposed throughout.  R10 000 reward for information ‘We should kill him’ – Truck driver hears how hijackers argue about his fate #TrafficUpdate: Avoid N4 near Machadodorp VIDEO: Machadodorp two granted bail  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za