 Alta Maree was a life-long Witbank resident, well known for her accolades as a South African javelin gold medalist.
Maree went missing from her home in Clewer on 19 February this year. Upon her disappearance, a missing persons case was opened but was changed to a murder investigation after remains were found in a shallow grave.
The human remains were sent as evidence for DNA testing to confirm whether they belonged to Maree. Also read: Spiesgooi kampioen vermoor – medaljes opgespoor Dennis Sipho Motubatse (34) was taken into custody as a lead suspect after he pointed out the location of the body to the police.
Motubatse was released by the Witbank Magistrate Court after being granted bail of R1 500. He then went on the run. A collage created by Alta’s family in memory of their lost loved one. The well-known rugby administrator, Freddie Nel, spoke of how Maree took up javelin as a sport in the first place.
During an inter-house tournament at General Hertzog, the team was short of a javelin thrower. Maree was sitting in the pavilion eating hamburgers when a teacher called her closer.
She tucked in her dress, took the javelin for the first time, and with one throw she broke the inter-house record. Also read: Suid-Afrikaanse spiesgooi kampioen dalk vir muti vermoor In 1970, ’71, ’72 and ’73, Alta Maree came first in the South African javelin championships.
After school, she qualified as a diesel mechanic and lived alone. Maree was attacked in her home in Clewer, the carpets were ripped out and her weapons, ammunition and medals were all stolen.
Her driver’s licence was found alongside the Ogies road. A family member told www.mobserver.co.za that information was received of how Maree was tied to a tree for three days before being brutally murdered.
It is alleged that some of her fingers were amputated for use in traditional medicine. Dina Hennings, Maree’s sister, told www.mobserver.co.za of how shocking it is to think of what Alta went through before being brutally killed. While Maree’s sister is convinced that the DNA results will test positive, the murderer is still at large.  R10 000 reward for information ‘We should kill him’ – Truck driver hears how hijackers argue about his fate #TrafficUpdate: Avoid N4 near Machadodorp VIDEO: Machadodorp two granted bail  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 